Certified Penetration Testing Professional Exam 412-80
s3scanner Cheat Sheet
Certified Penetration Testing Professional
s3scanner Cheat Sheet
s3scanner
Source: https://github.com
s3scanner is designed to scan and enumerate object storage buckets across various cloud
providers. It is beneficial for identifying publicly accessible buckets and assessing their security
configurations. s3scanner offers a range of options for outputting scan results, such as saving
data to a PostgreSQL database or printing logs in JSON format for easier processing and
integration with other tools.
Syntax
$ s3scanner -bucket-file names.txt -enumerate
Options
-bucket Name of bucket to check.
-bucket-file File of bucket names to check.
Connect to RabbitMQ to get buckets. Requires config file
-mq
key "mq". Default: "false".
-db Save results to a Postgres database. Requires config file
key "db.uri". Default: "false".
-json Print logs to stdout in JSON format instead of human-
readable. Default: "false".
-enumerate Enumerate bucket objects (can be time-consuming).
Default: "false".
-provider Object storage provider: aws, custom, digitalocean,
dreamhost, gcp, linode, scaleway - custom requires config
file. Default: "aws".
-threads Number of threads to scan with. Default: "4".
-verbose Enable verbose logging. Default: "false".
Page | 1 Certified Penetration Testing Professional Copyright © by EC-Council
All Rights Reserved. Reproduction is Strictly Prohibited.
Certified Penetration Testing Professional Exam 412-80
s3scanner Cheat Sheet
-version Print version. Default: "false".
s3scanner Commands
Command Description
s3scanner -bucket secret_uploads Scan a single bucket
s3scanner -bucket-file names.txt Scans every bucket name listed in the file
Scans AWS for bucket names listed in the file
s3scanner -bucket-file names.txt
names.txt and enumerates all objects within those
-enumerate
buckets.
Scans a specified bucket (my-bucket) in GCP,
s3scanner -provider gcp -db -
enumerates all objects, and saves the results to a
bucket my-bucket -enumerate
PostgreSQL database.
Connects to a RabbitMQ server and consumes
s3scanner -mq
messages containing bucket names to scan.
s3scanner -bucket images -db Saves all scan results to a PostgreSQL database.
Outputs scan results in machine-readable JSON
s3scanner -bucket images -json
format.
s3scanner -bucket attachments - Enumerate all objects stored in the bucket.
enumerate
s3scanner -bucket assets - Specify the storage provider when checking
provider gcp buckets.
s3scanner -bucket secret_docs - Set the number of threads to scan with.
threads 8
s3scanner -bucket spreadsheets - Enables verbose logging of debug messages.
verbose
s3scanner -version Print the version info and exit.
Page | 2 Certified Penetration Testing Professional Copyright © by EC-Council
All Rights Reserved. Reproduction is Strictly Prohibited.