Certified Penetration Testing Professional Exam 412-80
SearchSploit Cheat Sheet
Certified Penetration Testing Professional
SearchSploit Cheat Sheet
SearchSploit
Source: https://www.exploit-db.com
SearchSploit is a command-line tool that facilitates the search and utilization of the Exploit
Database archives. This tool is particularly useful for attackers who are seeking quick access to a
comprehensive repository of publicly available exploits and vulnerability data. Attackers can
perform keyword searches, title-specific searches, and even exclude certain terms to fine-tune
their search results.
Syntax
searchsploit [options] term1 [term2] ... [termN]
Options
-h, --help Displays the help screen with all available options and
commands.
-v, --verbose Enables verbose output for more detailed information.
-t, --title Searches only in the title of exploits.
-p, --path Displays the full path to the exploit file.
-j, --json Outputs the search results in JSON format.
-x, --examine Opens the selected exploit file with the default editor.
-m, --mirror Creates a local copy of the exploit database.
-u, --update Updates the local exploit database to the latest version.
-s, --search Performs a strict search for the exact term provided.
-e, --exact Shows only exact matches for the search term.
-c, --case Case-sensitive search.
Page | 1 Certified Penetration Testing Professional Copyright © by EC-Council
All Rights Reserved. Reproduction is Strictly Prohibited.
Certified Penetration Testing Professional Exam 412-80
SearchSploit Cheat Sheet
-w, --www Searches Exploit-DB's website instead of the local copy.
--exclude <terms> Excludes results containing the specified terms.
-o, --overflow Suppresses 'Listing too many entries' warnings.
--colour Disable color highlighting in search results.
--id Display the EDB-ID value rather than local path.
--exclude="term" Remove values from results
SearchSploit Commands
Command Description
Searches for local exploits related to "afd"
searchsploit afd windows local
(Ancillary Function Driver) on Windows systems
Searches for exploits related to "oracle" and
searchsploit -t oracle windows
"Windows" in the titles only
searchsploit -p 39446 Displays the full path of the exploit file with the ID
39446
searchsploit -s Apache Struts Performs a strict search for exploits related to
2.0.0 "Apache Struts 2.0.0"
searchsploit linux reverse Searches for exploits related to "linux", "reverse",
password and "password".
Searches for the exploit related to CVE-2021-44228
searchsploit --cve 2021-44228
(Log4Shell vulnerability).
This command searches for exploits related to
searchsploit linux kernel 3.2 --
"linux kernel 3.2" but excludes results containing
exclude="(PoC)|/dos/"
"(PoC)" or "/dos/" in their descriptions
This command outputs the exploit with ID 55555 in
searchsploit -j 55555 | jq JSON format and pipes it to jq for formatted
viewing
Page | 2 Certified Penetration Testing Professional Copyright © by EC-Council
All Rights Reserved. Reproduction is Strictly Prohibited.