Certified Penetration Testing Professional Exam 412-80
Shodan Cheat Sheet
Certified Penetration Testing Professional
Shodan Cheat Sheet
Shodan
Source: https://www.shodan.io
Shodan is a search engine for Internet-connected devices. It is a great resource to provide passive
reconnaissance on a target. It also provides a public API that allows other tools to access all the
Shodan’s data.
1. General Filters
2. HTTP Filters
3. NTP Filters
4. SSL Filters
5. Telnet Filters
6. Shodan Search Filters Examples
1. General Filters
Filter Description
Only show results after the given date (dd/mm/yyyy)
after
string
asn Autonomous system number string
Only show results before the given date
before
(dd/mm/yyyy) string
category Available categories: ICS, malware string
city Name of the city string
Page | 1 Certified Penetration Testing Professional Copyright © by EC-Council
All Rights Reserved. Reproduction is Strictly Prohibited.
Certified Penetration Testing Professional Exam 412-80
Shodan Cheat Sheet
Example: cisco city:"New York"
The 2-letter country code string
country
Example: webcamxp country:"US"
Accepts between 2 and 4 parameters.
If 2 parameters: latitude, longitude.
If 3 parameters: latitude, longitude, range
geo
If 4 parameters: top left latitude, top left longitude,
bottom right latitude, bottom right longitude
Example: Webcamxp geo:“ -50.81,201.80”
hash Hash of the data property integer
has_ipv6 True/ False boolean
has_screenshot True/ False boolean
hostname The full hostname for the device string
ip Alias for net filter string
isp ISP managing the netblock string
Network range in CIDR notation (ex. 199.4.1.0/24)
net
string
org The organization assigned the netblock string
os Operating system string
Port number for the service integer
port
Example: https port:443
postal Postal code (US-only) string
Name of the software/ product providing the banner
product
string
region Name of the region/ state string
state Alias for region string
version Version for the product string
CVE ID for a vulnerability string
vuln
Example: vuln:cve-2014-0160
Page | 2 Certified Penetration Testing Professional Copyright © by EC-Council
All Rights Reserved. Reproduction is Strictly Prohibited.
Certified Penetration Testing Professional Exam 412-80
Shodan Cheat Sheet
2. HTTP Filters
Filter Description
http.component Name of web technology used on the website
http.component_category Category of web components used on the website
http.favicon.hash Search devices by the hash value of their favicon
Search devices by the hash value of their HTTP
http.headers_hash
header
http.html HTML of web banners
http.html_hash Hash of the website HTML
Search devices by the hash value of their robots.txt
http.robots_hash
file
http.securitytxt Search devices by the presence of a security.txt file
http.status Response status code
Title for the web banners website
http.title
Example : title:"+tm01+" has_Screenshot:true
Search devices protected by a Web Application
http.waf
Firewall (WAF)
3. NTP Filters
Filter Description
ntp.ip IP addresses returned by monlist
ntp.ip_count Number of IPs returned by initial monlist
True/ False; whether there are more IP addresses to
ntp.more
be gathered from monlist
ntp.port Port used by IP addresses in monlist
4. SSL Filters
Filter Description
has_ssl True / False
ssl Search all SSL data
Page | 3 Certified Penetration Testing Professional Copyright © by EC-Council
All Rights Reserved. Reproduction is Strictly Prohibited.
Certified Penetration Testing Professional Exam 412-80
Shodan Cheat Sheet
ssl.alpn Application layer protocols such as HTTP/2 ("h2")
ssl.chain_count Number of certificates in the chain
ssl.version Possible values: SSLv2, SSLv3, TLSv1,TLSv1.1, TLSv1.2
ssl.cert.alg Certificate algorithm
ssl.cert.expired True / False
ssl.cert.extension Names of extensions in the certificate
ssl.cert.serial Serial number as an integer or hexadecimal string
ssl.cert.pubkey.bits Number of bits in the public key
ssl.cert.pubkey.type Public key type
ssl.cipher.version SSL version of the preferred cipher
ssl.cipher.bits Number of bits in the preferred cipher
ssl.cipher.name Name of the preferred cipher
5. Telnet Filters
Filter Description
telnet.option Search all the options
The server requests the client do support these
telnet.do
options
The server requests the client to not support these
telnet.dont
options
telnet.will The server supports these options
telnet.wont The server does not support these options
6. Shodan Search Filters Examples
Filter Description
voIP For footprinting VoIP
VPN For footprinting VPN
linux upnp avtech For exploiting cams
netcam For exploiting netcam
“default password” For Default Passwords
Page | 4 Certified Penetration Testing Professional Copyright © by EC-Council
All Rights Reserved. Reproduction is Strictly Prohibited.
Certified Penetration Testing Professional Exam 412-80
Shodan Cheat Sheet
To find exploits for various os, servers, platforms,
iis source:ExploitDB
applications etc present on ExploitDB or Metasploit
netgear port:80 To find Netgear devices
Android Webcam Server-
To find android webcam server
Authenticate
port:8333 To find Bitcoin server
Server:Thin-3.2.11-3.1.10- Ruby on Rails Vulnerable Server(CVE-2013-0156 and
3.0.19-2.3.15 CVE-2013-0155)
Jetty 3.1.8(Windows 2000
To find Windfarms
5.0 ×86)”200 OK”
port:5353 To find DNS service
iRidium To search for vulnerable ICS systems
port:502 To Search for Modbus enabled ICS/SCADA systems:
“Schneider Electric” Search for SCADA systems using PLC name
To detect Schneider Electric TM221 PLCs connected
TM221ME16R
to the Internet
SCADA Country:"US" Search for SCADA systems using geolocation
port:20000 To Search for ICS-specific protocol DNP3
Page | 5 Certified Penetration Testing Professional Copyright © by EC-Council
All Rights Reserved. Reproduction is Strictly Prohibited.