Certified Penetration Testing Professional Exam 412-80
SMBeagle Cheat Sheet
Certified Penetration Testing Professional
SMBeagle Cheat Sheet
SMBeagle
Source: https://github.com
SMBeagle is a cross-platform (SMB) fileshare auditing tool that hunts out all files it can see in the
network and reports if the file can be read and/or written. All these findings are streamed out to
either a CSV file or an elasticsearch host. SMBeagle can scan an entire network to discover all
accessible SMB shares.
Syntax
SMBeagle.exe -e [Target network]
Options
-c, --csv-file Outputs results to a CSV file by providing the file path.
Outputs results to Elasticsearch by providing the
-e, --elasticsearch-host
Elasticsearch hostname.
--elasticsearch-port Specifies a custom port for Elasticsearch if required.
Enumerates only one file's permissions per directory for
-f, --fast
a faster scan.
Scans the local shares on the machine where SMBeagle is
-l, --scan-local-shares
run.
-D, --disable-network- Disables network discovery, requiring manual
discovery specification of networks to scan.
Manually adds a network to scan. Multiple networks can
-n, --network
be specified.
-N, --exclude-network Excludes specified networks from scanning. Multiple
<network> networks can be specified.
Page | 1 Certified Penetration Testing Professional Copyright © by EC-Council
All Rights Reserved. Reproduction is Strictly Prohibited.
Certified Penetration Testing Professional Exam 412-80
SMBeagle Cheat Sheet
-h, --host <host> Manually adds a host to scan.
-H, --exclude-host <host> Excludes specified hosts from scanning.
-q, --quiet Disables unnecessary output for a quieter run.
Excludes shares with the specified name from scanning.
-S, --exclude-share <share>
Multiple shares can be specified.
Only scans shares with the specified name. Multiple
-s, --share <share>
shares can be specified.
-E, --exclude-hidden-shares Excludes hidden shares (shares ending with $).
-v, --verbose Provides more detailed output during the scan.
Sets the maximum network size (in CIDR notation) to scan
-m, --max-network-cidr-size
for SMB hosts. Default is 20.
-A, --dont-enumerate-acls Skips the enumeration of file ACLs for a faster scan.
-d, --domain <domain> Specifies the domain for connecting to SMB.
Specifies the username for connecting to SMB. This is
-u, --username <username>
mandatory on Linux.
Specifies the password for connecting to SMB. This is
-p, --password <password>
mandatory on Linux.
--help Displays the help screen with all available options.
--version Displays version information for SMBeagle.
SMBeagle Commands
Command Description
Starts network scanning and directories’
SMBeagle.exe -e [Target network] enumeration on the hosts present in the target
network
SMBeagle.exe -l -c output3.csv Scans the local shares and output to a CSV file
./SMBeagle.exe -c out.csv -f Output to a CSV file with fast enumeration
./SMBeagle.exe -n 1.0.0.1/32 Public IP scanning by declaring manually
Outputs the results of the scan to an Elasticsearch
SMBeagle -e 127.0.0.1 instance running at the specified IP address
(127.0.0.1)
SMBeagle -c out.csv -e 127.0.0.1 Output to Elasticsearch and CSV
Page | 2 Certified Penetration Testing Professional Copyright © by EC-Council
All Rights Reserved. Reproduction is Strictly Prohibited.
Certified Penetration Testing Professional Exam 412-80
SMBeagle Cheat Sheet
SMBeagle -D -e 127.0.0.1 -n Disable network discovery and provide manual
192.168.12.0/23 192.168.15.0/24 networks
Skips the enumeration of Access Control Lists
SMBeagle -A -e 127.0.0.1
(ACLs) to speed up the scan
Page | 3 Certified Penetration Testing Professional Copyright © by EC-Council
All Rights Reserved. Reproduction is Strictly Prohibited.